This includes my internship Report as a Petroleum Engineering undergraduate.
Industrial training is an important phase of a student life. A well planned, properly executed and evaluated industrial training helps a lot in developing a professional attitude and industrial practical experience. During a period of twenty-four (24) weeks training at ABUJA DATA SCHOOL/MANGROOVE TECHNOLOGIES, I worked and learned under the I.T training section of the company where I learnt to work with various Data Analytics tools such as; Microsoft Excel, Power BI (Business Intelligence), SPSS (Statistical Package for Social Science), Python and SQL (Structured Query Language) which are outlined in this report.
Included in this report is a brief summary about SIWES, its aims and objectives. Also included in this report is a brief detail about my place of internship and a summary of activities carried out for the period of internship. At the later part of this report, why oil and gas companies should act on data analytics is discussed. Also, limitations and challenges encountered during the period of internship and possible recommendations to mitigate them were stated.
I gained practical skills and experience by working on numerous Data Analysis projects, and with the guidance of my supervisors I was able to complete Data Analysis process. I could conclude that for this internship as a Data Analyst, the knowledge of tools and software proved to be beneficial not only for the tasks that were assigned to me, also it proves beneficial to me as an aspiring Petroleum Engineer that will eventually solve problems facing the energy sector by blending Domain knowledge with Analytics. I have become more skilled particularly in analyzing data, and exposed to an ideal working environment.
Keywords: Industrial Training, Abuja Data School, Data Analysis\Analytics, Microsoft Excel, Power BI, SPSS, Python, SQL, Oil and Gas companies
